.nh
.TH Usage Instructions (GLSL / MPV) (v4.x)
.SH Installing and Setting Up Anime4K for Linux-based Distributions (and other Unix-like OS)
.RS
.IP "  1." 5
Install \fBmpv\fR from repositories of your distribution, some of the
common ones are mentioned here
.SS Fedora Silverblue
.RS
.IP "  1." 5
Install the RPM-Fusion "free" repository, if not already
installed, paste in the command below\fBsudo rpm-ostree install https://mirrors.rpmfusion.org/free/fedora/rpmfusion-free-release-$(rpm -E %fedora).noarch.rpm https://mirrors.rpmfusion.org/nonfree/fedora/rpmfusion-nonfree-release-$(rpm -E %fedora).noarch.rpm\fR
.IP "  2." 5
Reboot and install \fBmpv\fR
.IP "  3." 5
Reboot and continue to step 2

.RE

.SS Fedora
.EX
sudo dnf install mpv

.EE

.SS Ubuntu and Derivatives
.EX
sudo apt install mpv

.EE

.SS Arch and Derivatives
.EX
sudo pacman -S mpv

.EE

.SS Gentoo (Add USE Flags as mentioned here
\[la]https://wiki.gentoo.org/wiki/Mpv#USE_flags\[ra])
.EX
sudo emerge --ask media-video/mpv` 

.EE


.RE

.RS
.IP \(bu 2
Note: make sure to install a version of 
\[la]https://mpv.io/\[ra]
that was released after June 2021, older versions might not
work
\[la]https://github.com/bloc97/Anime4K/issues/134\[ra]\&.

.RE

.RS
.IP "  1." 5
Clone the repo using
\fBgit clone https://github.com/bloc97/Anime4K.git\fR, or download the
template files and extract them.
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
\fBOptimized shaders for lower-end GPU:\fP
.br
\fI(Eg. GTX 980, GTX 1060, RX 570)\fP
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
Download the template files
here
\[la]https://github.com/Tama47/Anime4K/releases/download/v4.0.1/GLSL_Mac_Linux_Low\-end.zip\[ra]\&.
.IP \(bu 2

Or click here to install manually.

Copy & Paste the code from input.conf and mpv.conf in your input.conf and mpv.conf file.
Then download and extract the shaders from releases and put them in the shaders folder.

.RE

 
.IP \(bu 2
\fBOptimized shaders for higher-end GPU:\fP
.br
\fI(Eg. GTX 1080, RTX 2070, RTX 3060, RX 590, Vega 56, 5700XT,
6600XT)\fP
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
Download the template files
here
\[la]https://github.com/Tama47/Anime4K/releases/download/v4.0.1/GLSL_Mac_Linux_High\-end.zip\[ra]\&.
.IP \(bu 2

Or click here to install manually.

Copy & Paste the code from input.conf and mpv.conf in your input.conf and mpv.conf file.
Then download and extract the shaders from releases and put them in the shaders folder.

.RE

 

.RE

.IP "  2." 5
Navigate to \fB~/.config/mpv\fR and move the \fBinput.conf\fR, \fBmpv.conf\fR
and the \fBshaders\fR folder into the \fBmpv\fR directory.
\fBmv path/to/stuff ~/.config/mpv\fR

.RE

.ti 0
\l'\n(.lu'

.SH Quick Usage Instructions
.RS
.IP "  1." 5
Anime4K has 3 major modes: A, B, and C. Each mode is optimized for a
different class of anime degradations.
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
Mode A is automatically enabled, if you use our template (this can
be change in \fBmpv.conf\fR).

.RE

.IP "  2." 5
To enable each mode manually:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
Press \fBCTRL+1\fP to enable Mode A (Optimized for 1080p Anime).
.IP \(bu 2
Press \fBCTRL+2\fP to enable Mode B (Optimized for 720p Anime).
.IP \(bu 2
Press \fBCTRL+3\fP to enable Mode C (Optimized for 480p Anime).
.IP \(bu 2
Press \fBCTRL+0\fP to clear all shaders (Disable Anime4K).

.RE

.IP "  3." 5
For more explanations and customization options, see the Advanced
Usage
Instructions
\[la]GLSL_Instructions_Advanced.md#advanced\-usage\-instructions\-glsl\-\-mpv\-v4x\[ra]\&.

.RE
